feat(cmd): mirror (#7004)
zitadel/zitadel: docs/docs/self-hosting/manage/cli/mirror.mdx

* [MacOS](/docs/self-hosting/deploy/macos#install-postgresql)

Or use the following commands for [Docker Compose](/docs/self-hosting/deploy/compose)

```bash
# Download the docker compose example configuration.
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zitadel/zitadel/main/docs/docs/self-hosting/deploy/docker-compose.yaml

# Run the database and application containers.
docker compose up db --detach
```

## Example

The following commands setup the database as described above. See [configuration](#configuration) for more details about the configuration options.

```bash
zitadel init --config /path/to/your/new/config.yaml
zitadel setup --for-init --config /path/to/your/new/config.yaml # make sure to set --tlsMode and masterkey analog to your current deployment
zitadel mirror --system --config /path/to/your/mirror/config.yaml # make sure to set --tlsMode and masterkey analog to your current deployment
```

## Usage

The general syntax for the mirror command is:

```bash
zitadel mirror [flags]

Flags:
  -h, --help                     help for mirror

      --config stringArray       path to config file to overwrite system defaults

>       --ignore-previous          ignores previous migrations of the events table

Author: yes i copy patsted the texts

>       --replace                  replaces all data except events and projections

Reviewer: Does it make sense to name what's replaced instead of what's not replaced? If not both to be very explicit?

>       --replace                  replaces all data except events and projections

Author: yes i copy patsted the texts

    MaxConnLifetime: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_MAXCONNLIFETIME
    MaxConnIdleTime: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_MAXCONNIDLETIME
    Options: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_OPTIONS
    User:
      Username: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_USER_USERNAME
      Password: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_USER_PASSWORD
      SSL:
        Mode: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_USER_SSL_MODE
        RootCert: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_USER_SSL_ROOTCERT
        Cert: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_USER_SSL_CERT
        Key: # ZITADEL_DESTINATION_POSTGRES_USER_SSL_KEY

# As cockroachdb first copies the data into memory this parameter is used to iterate through the events table and fetch only the given amount of events per iteration
EventBulkSize: 10000 # ZITADEL_EVENTBULKSIZE

Projections:
  # Defines how many projections are allowed to run in parallel
  ConcurrentInstances: 7 # ZITADEL_PROJECTIONS_CONCURRENTINSTANCES
  # Limits the amount of events projected by each iteration
  EventBulkLimit: 1000 # ZITADEL_PROJECTIONS_EVENTBULKLIMIT

Eventstore:
  # Limit the maximum amount of client side retries of the eventstore push command

>   MaxRetries: 3 # ZITADEL_EVENTSTORE_MAXRETRIES

Author: ok never mind the config is not available anyways

>   MaxRetries: 3 # ZITADEL_EVENTSTORE_MAXRETRIES

Reviewer: I don't understand your latest comment, but I guess it is an edge case that we can't easily handle better? Then let's resolve the comment.

    BulkLimit: 1000 #ZITADEL_AUTH_SPOOLER_BULKLIMIT

Admin:
  Spooler:
    # Limits the amount of events projected by each iteration
    BulkLimit: 10 #ZITADEL_ADMIN_SPOOLER_BULKLIMIT

Log:
  Level: info
```

## Sub commands

The provided sub commands allow more fine grained execution of copying the data.

The following commands are safe to execute multiple times by adding the `--replace`-flag which replaces the data not provided by the events in the destination database.

### `zitadel mirror auth`

Copies the auth requests to the destination database.

### `zitadel mirror eventstore`

Copies the events since the last migration and unique constraints to the destination database.

### `zitadel mirror projections`

Executes all projections in the destination database.

It is NOOP if the projections are already up-to-date. 

### `zitadel mirror system`

Copies encryption keys and assets to the destination database.

### `zitadel mirror verify`

Prints the amount of rows of the source and destination database and the diff. Positive numbers indicate more rows in the destination table that in the source, negative numbers the opposite.

> The following tables will likely have an unequal count:

Author: added

> * **eventstore.events2**: because only event of instances are migrated

Author: i changed the filter of the verify so that equality should be possible

The following tables will likely have an unequal count:

* **projections.current_states**: If your deployment was upgraded several times, the number of entries in the destination will be lower
* **projections.locks**: If your deployment was upgraded several times, the number of entries in the destination will be lower
* **projections.keys4\***: Only not expired keys are inserted, the number of entries in the destination will be lower
* **projections.failed_events**: Should be lower or equal.
* **auth.users2**: Was replaced with auth.users3, the number of entries in the destination will be 0
* **auth.users3**: Is the replacement of auth.users2, the number of entries in the destination will be equal or higher

## Limitations

It is not possible to use files as source or destination. See github issue [here](https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel/issues/7966)

Currently the encryption keys of the source database must be copied to the destination database. See github issue [here](https://github.com/zitadel/zitadel/issues/7964)

It is not possible to change the domain of the ZITADEL deployment.

> If you want to mirror the data multiple times make sure to always use the same flag and parameter to define the instances migrated (`--system` or `--instance`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you mirrored an instance using the `--instance` flag, you have to make sure you don't mirror it again. This means for example, you cannot mirror a few instances and then pass the `--system` flag. You have to pass all remaining instances explicitly, once you used the `--instance` flag 
```

The following tables will likely have an unequal count:

* **projections.current_states**: If your deployment was upgraded several times, the number of entries in the destination will be lower
* **projections.locks**: If your deployment was upgraded several times, the number of entries in the destination will be lower
* **projections.keys4\***: Only not expired keys are inserted, the number of entries in the destination will be lower
* **projections.failed_events**: Should be lower or equal.
* **auth.users2**: Was replaced with auth.users3, the number of entries in the destination will be 0

> * **auth.users3**: Is the replacement of auth.users2, the number of entries in the destination will be equal or higher

Reviewer: auth.users3 is not likely to have a diff, right?

Author: no. it would only have a diff if you mirror an older version which i would not explicitely describe
